---
title: 2020 Annual Homeowner's Meeting
date: 2020-06-27 10:00:00 -0700
location: Zoom
tags: [meeting]
---

## Minutes

Meeting held via Zoom due to Covid-19

The meeting was called to order at 10A.

Darrin Slovanick-President, Wes Friedman-Secretary and Tom Gonzalez-Treasurer presiding. 24 out of 58 Homeowners participating. Per Bylaws, 25% (15) or greater is a Quorum. Quorum was met.

### Treasurer’s Report

* Current balance in the treasury as of June 27, 2020 was $4,978.27.
* The Treasurer reported that one homeowner had not paid their HOA fees, which were due by March 31, 2020.
* The HOA provides community backflow testing through a negotiated contract with the BAT Lady and invoices those homeowners who require this mandatory service included in their annual dues. The BAT Lady prefers receiving one payment from the HOA in lieu of separately invoicing each homeowner.

### Board Member Elections

* Jordan Moore was elected to be the next President of the HOA.
  Brynn Graham was elected Secretary
  Tom Gonzalez will remain as Treasurer.
* The above elected HOA Board members will be authorized signatures on the checking and savings accounts at Sound Credit Union. Darrin Slovanick and Wes Friedman will be removed as signatures on these accounts.
* Architectural Control Committee Chair remains vacant.

### Old Business
* The Board has been working with a real estate attorney to address three issues:
  * Update and legal filing of the CCRs to reflect two amendments approved by the HOA several years ago. The HOA is waiting for a status of the filing.
    * Increase annual dues to $120.
    * Prohibit the use of fireworks with the community.
  * Determine ownership of the pond and greenbelt/common space that surrounds the community. After reviewing tax files, we were able to confirm that the homeowners equally share a portion of this space. Each homeowner is assessed an equal share of the taxes with those taxes included in the homeowner’s property taxes.
  * Pond Maintenance. Homeowners living around the pond have expressed concern that the pond can overflow during periods of heavy rain and that the pond may need to be “dredged”. Because storm water runoff does come from surrounding roadways that are either city and/or county owned, the HOA asked the attorney to look into any liabilities that the city and/or county may have if their roadways are contributing to sediments that are restricting the proper flow of the pond.
* Reviewing past records, we were unable to find any evidence that the pond had been dredged in the past, as it was suggested. We believe that someone had been hired to move debris/materials to the banks of the pond to improve the flow. We also determined that the City has come out before to remove debris from the culvert that runs under 38th to improve the flow. Please note that this culvert is not on City property, yet the City did send a crew to do this work in the past.
* Dredging the pond is an expensive option if it is required. To do so may require an environment assessment and the proper disposal of materials that are removed in the process. The HOA has not done any assessment of whether sediments from neighboring roadways are an issue or whether the pond needs to be dredged. We believe that maintaining proper flow may be what is necessary to maintain the pond and surrounding areas.
* The Board is still working with the attorney to resolve some issues to close out the file. We hope to have these resolved within the next few weeks. There will be no additional attorney’s fees for this close out work.
* Residents around the pond have reported that several trees on the island need to be removed because they are either dead or dying.

### New Business

* The Architectural Control Committee Chair position remains open.
* General maintenance around the pond is needed to clear out the overgrowth of blackberries. The Board will look into setting up a community work party or hiring this task out to a third party. The Architectural Committee was tasked to look into the possibility of planting some more “plant friendly” vegetation around the pond for better maintenance.
* The Board thanks Greg Wolfe for his continued work to keep the setbacks along Briarwood Lane properly maintained. Also, a shout out to Howard Cushner for his efforts to keep the strip along the sidewalk clean and weed free. The Board asks for everyone to pitch in and pull weeds if you see them.
* The strip does have some spots that need bark to be replaced. The Board will look into purchasing bark and will set up a community work party to help distribute the materials along the sidewalk.
* The Board looked into the removal of trees that need to be taken down within the greenbelt/common area. A local firm will charge $100 to inspect the area as needed. Brynn Graham had used an arborist in the past that provides free assessments and will contact them if needed.
* A reminder from the Board that no vegetation within the greenbelt/common areas, including the rear property lines for Lots 27-41 along 35th and 36th streets can be disturbed without Board approval.

Meeting adjourned.

Respectfully submitted by, Wes Friedman, HOA Secretary June 2020
